-- Lab02 Readme

For this lab we are going to write a small program.  The purpose is to gain
experience using text editor.  It is assumed that you have already done all
previous lab exercises. 

-- Setup

Use the instructions in the previous lessions to create a new directory called
"lab02" in your "labs" directory.  After you have created the directory make
sure that you "go into" the "lab02" directory (Hint: "go into x" means "change
your current directory to x").

-- Learn an editor

In order to create and edit files we need to use a file editor.  There are two
very common file editors in Linux: emacs, vi.  Most linux users are very
passionate about their text editor of choice and can give you a long
discussion about why their text editor of choice is FAR superior to the other
one.  My preference is emacs but you are free to use whichever editor you want
to use.  If you already know how to use something other than emacs or vi you
are free to use that too.

If you don't yet know how to use a linux text editor then you should take a
few minutes to go through one of these online tutorials.

emacs:
http://www.jesshamrick.com/2012/09/10/absolute-beginners-guide-to-emacs/

vi: 
http://www.unix-manuals.com/tutorials/vi/vi-in-10-1.html

You are free to choose either editor.  Keep in mind that I don't know vi so I
won't be able to assist you with using that editor.

-- Write a program

After you have setup your lab directory and learned an editor it's time to
write a simple program.  Use your text editor to create a Java program that
prints the following text matching this format:

Midway upon the journey of our life
I found myself within a forest dark,
For the straightforward pathway had be lost.

After creating the program be sure to compile it and run it to make sure that
it works. Bonus points if you can identify the text :-)

-- Lab completion

To show that you have completed the lab you need to turn in the assignment
using the "turnin" program.  The command to turn in your file is
"~mike.noel/bin/turnin cs261 filename".  Replace "filename" with the actual
name of your file.  This command only generates output if there is an error.  





